English Version

My three-year-old has an electronic piano keyboard. It's theirs - always there, sometimes played, sometimes ignored. It makes cheerful plinks and plonks. They can bash away at it whenever they fancy. It's portable and has built-in 8 tones, 8 rhythms, 11 demos, 4 percussions, 4 animal sounds, volume and tempo control. The 37-key kid piano is an excellent musical toy they enjoy. Sometimes they even leave it on, and a happy melody plays in the background whilst our toddler is reading a book with their mother. Regardless, it's just... there.

I have a piano too. A 37-key weighted one, made of wood - about a quarter the size of a proper piano. This digital piano features 37 keys and 3 full octave scales. It was my ideal introduction to music. I bought it to practise when I was taking lessons. Now I share it with my toddler because I want them to get a sense of something bigger, something with proper weighted keys.

Yesterday, my toddler played on my piano. They didn't look at the keys - they looked over their shoulder at me instead. Then at their mother, who was standing there with her mouth wide open, shocked. The tune they were improvising sounded amazing. Then, our toddler slowly turned forward to face the piano, still not looking at the keys. They paused, turned back towards me, smiled, and applauded. Of course I applauded too. So did their mother. It was magnificent. I ran over to them and picked them up, gave them lots of kisses and twirled them around in the air. They giggled with excitement, laughed and smiled at their mother.

Later that day I went to my sister's house so my toddler could play with their older cousin.

My sister has a full-sized piano in her study.

My toddler walked up to it. I pressed the keys and as the sound reverberated around the study, I said "This is a big piano" and my toddler repeated "Big Piano". It was rare for them to see a big piano.

Their cousin lifted them onto the stool, but that wasn't enough. My toddler wanted their cousin to sit next to them. So the cousin sat down and started playing, and my toddler joined in. The glorious sound filled the study. They played a duet. Of course my toddler's notes were not as fluid and in tune as their cousin's, but my toddler didn't know that. They were both having so much fun. The music was so good that it drew my toddler's grandmother into the study. She stood at the door, marvelling at what she was seeing and hearing. My toddler raised their hand up in the air and offered their palm for a high five, and their grandmother patted their hand with joy.

Then, their cousin paused for a second and used one finger to play a note, and my toddler copied them and used one finger to play a note. They did this about six times in time with each other - first their cousin, then my toddler. Then finally, they both looked at each other, no fingers on the keys, and both laughed. It was a perfect ending and we applauded and cheered loudly. Grandmother offered her palm up for a high five, and my toddler slapped it with glee.

It was time for us to go.

I picked up my toddler and walked them into the hallway towards their buggy, but they twisted, turned and wriggled in my arms trying to get free, and they said "Big Piano, The big Piano."

They didn't want to leave. They pointed in the direction of the study. They wanted to play with the big piano. They wanted to hear the magnificent full sound of the big piano.

Grandmother came into the hallway to see what the commotion was about. My toddler was crying, so grandmother took them from me, comforted them and placed them on the ground. My toddler ran towards the study, saying "Big Piano!"

"Now, this big piano is the real deal," said Grandmother to the toddler. "It's not the sound of a small digital piano that you have, or the 37-key piano that your father has. The big piano is exactly that - big. It sounds different. The keys have a different feel. My mother gave it to me. It has a lot of history. My mother used to play the big piano in an opera house in Vienna, then she shipped it to me, and I gave it to your auntie because she was the only one in the family with space big enough to have the big piano."

And I realised that In my toddler's world, the big piano was scarce. Special. Unique.

So, they didn't want to leave.

My toddler sat proudly on the stool next to their cousin and they played the big piano. I could see my toddler was drawn to the sound of the big piano and the smooth feel of the keys.

Eventually, after a lot more crying and fighting to get out of my hands, my toddler allowed me to put them in the buggy. They were still asking for the big piano. They still didn't want to leave. But as I pushed the buggy away from my sister's house, I found some music from Mozart on my phone and placed it on top of the buggy's head cover.

Mozart's piano playing made my toddler drift off to sleep.